our movie begins with benjamin franklin
gates who is an american historian
cryptologist and treasure hunter
as a child his grandfather john told him
of a story that charles carroll of
carrollton passed on a secret to their
ancestor in 1832 of a fabled national
treasure hidden in america by the
knights templar founding fathers and
freemasons the clue leading to the
treasure is the phrase the secret lies
with charlotte
while ben is convinced by the story his
skeptical father patrick dismisses it as
nonsense
30 years later ben leads an expedition
with ian howe and his friend riley poole
a computer expert to find the charlotte
a ship lost in the arctic which holds
the first clue to finding the national
treasure
they find a meerschaum pipe which has a
clue implying the next is on the
declaration of independence
when ian suggests they steal it a fight
ensues and the group split in two
ben and riley report the potential theft
of the declaration to the fbi and dr
abigail chase of the national archives
but abigail dismisses their claim
ben decides to steal the document
himself from the archive's preservation
room during a gala event
obtaining abigail's fingerprints ben
successfully obtains the declaration but
is spotted by ian's group just as they
break in to steal it
ben tries to leave via the gift shop but
has to buy the declaration when the
clerk mistakes it for a souvenir copy
abigail suspecting something is astray
pursues ben and takes back the document
ian kidnaps her but ben and riley rescue
abigail tricking ian by leaving behind a
purchased copy of the declaration
fbi agent sadusky begins tracking ben
down
going to patrick's house the trio study
the declaration and discover a ottendorf
cipher written in invisible ink
the message refers to the silence do
good letters written by benjamin
franklin
patrick formerly owned them but donated
them to the franklin institute
using a schoolboy to acquire the
letter's keywords ben reilly and abigail
discover a message pointing to the bell
tower of independence hall
they find a hidden cache containing a
pair of glasses with multiple colored
lenses which when used to read the back
of the declaration reveal a clue
pointing to the trinity church
the group are chased by ian's associates
ben is arrested by the fbi while abigail
and riley lose the declaration to ian
however abigail convinces ian to help
them rescue ben in exchange for the next
clue
ian agrees arranging a meeting at the
uss intrepid where they help ben evade
the fbi
ian returns the declaration and asks for
the next clue but when ben remains coy
ian reveals he has kidnapped patrick as
a hostage
they travel to the trinity church where
they find an underground passage but it
appears to lead to a dead end lit by a
lone lantern
patrick claims it is referencing the
midnight ride of paul revere pointing
ian to the old north church in boston
ian leaves the gates trapped in the
chamber heading for boston
patrick reveals the clue was a fake
they find a notch which the meerschaum
pipe fits into opening a large chamber
containing the treasure with a staircase
that leads to above ground
ben contacts sadusky
actually a freemason surrendering the
declaration and the treasure's location
in exchange for clemency
ian is later arrested when ben tips the
fbi off
our movie ends with ben and abigail
having started a relationship while
riley is somewhat upset that ben turned
down the 10 finders fee for the treasure
and accepted a much smaller amount that
still has netted them all significant
wealth
if you enjoyed this video help me grow
my channel by subscribing